- There are several ways a host can be assigned an IP address:
	- DHCP - stateful as there as a mapping between the MAC and IP address
	- SLAAC - Hosts learn the /64 subnet their interface is on from their local router and then use this information to generate their own IPv6 EUI-64(on modern OS the host portion is randomised instead of EUI-64 for security reasons). Stateless as the router does not track the IP addresses of the hosts


### SLAAC

**Router Advertisements**

- When a global unicast address is configured on an interface, Router Advertisements advertising the network prefix are sent out by default. These ICMP messages are sent to the `All Nodes` multicast address from the interface's link local address.
- Hosts can also send a `Router Solicitation` message to request information
- The router tells the hosts the subnet address where they should generate their IPv6 address in and tells the hosts to use this router's IP as the default gateway. No other information(not even the DNS server IP) is supported by the IPv6 implementation.
- In this case, a DHCP server is still required in order to give out information such as the DNS server. However, this DHCP has no information about the hosts(whose IP is assigned by SLAAC), so the config is still stateless.
- `::/0` is the IPv6 equivalent of IPv4's `0.0.0.0 0.0.0.0`
- ARP is replaced by the `ICMP Neighbor Solicitations` and `Neighbor Advertisements`
- `Neighbor Solicitation` messages are sent to the `Solicited-Node` multicast address.



#### Solicited Node Multicast Address

- A solicited node's multicast address is generated by taking the least-significant 24-bits of a unicast or anycast address and appending them to the prefix `ff02::1:ff00:0/104`.
- **Example**: Assume a host has a unicast/anycast IPv6 address of `fe80::2aa:ff:fe28:9c5a` => Its multicast address is going to be `ff02::1:ff28:9c5a`